Add Security section (#4633)
the-turing-way/the-turing-way: book/website/reproducible-research/security/security-webserver.md

(rr-webserver)=
# Web Server Security

## Summary

This section explains the basics of setting up a publicly accessible web server.
It touches upon the following basic concepts:

1. Application server: a software that makes an application available to the end users. It can use frameworks like [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/en) (JavaScript), [FastAPI](https://fastapi.tiangolo.com/) or any other framework.
1. Client: a software that makes a request to a server. This can be a web browser that opens a web page that runs on a web server.

> 1. Reverse proxy: a server that does not host any content itself, but is exposed to the publicly accessible internet with the task to filter and forward incoming requests to an application server.

Reviewer: This might be better placed in the glossary.

> Note: both 'server' and 'client' are often used in an ambiguous manner, referring to either software or hardware.
> The term 'server' sometimes means an (application) server software that provides data through a network, or to a computer running that software.
> Equivalently, a client sometimes refers to a software that communicates with a server, or a computer that runs that software.
> Therefore, the rest of this section avoids the terms as much as possible, or disambiguates them explicitly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::{hint} 
both 'server' and 'client' are often used in an ambiguous manner, referring to either software or hardware.
The term 'server' sometimes means an (application) server software that provides data through a network, or to a computer running that software.
Equivalently, a client sometimes refers to a software that communicates with a server, or a computer that runs that software.
Therefore, the rest of this section avoids the terms as much as possible, or disambiguates them explicitly.
:::
```

> ### Server and Network Basics

Reviewer: These things feel out of scope for the book. Maybe we should lean on external resources?

In any case, I don't think a section on webserver security is the right place to explain what IP and DNS are.

#### IP Addresses

> Every computer on the internet is assigned a unique *IP address* through which it can be located by others. These IP addresses are shaped in a specific numeric format.
> 
> In version 4 of the Internet Protocol (IPv4), IP addresses have a form like this: `172.16.254.1`. IPv4 has been used since 1983 and is the first IP address specification for the internet. In version 6 (IPv6), they look like this: `0123:4567:89ab:cdef:0123:4567:89ab:cdef`. IPv6 has been designed as successor for IPv4 because IPv4 does not provide enough IP addresses.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every computer on the internet is assigned a unique IP address through which it can be located by others.
In version 4 of the Internet Protocol (IPv4), IP addresses are usually written as a set of four numbers from 0 to 255 (or, four bytes): `172.16.254.1`.
IPv4 has been used since 1983 and is the first IP address specification for the internet.
In version 6 (IPv6) are usually written as eight groups of four hexidecimal digits each: `0123:4567:89ab:cdef:0123:4567:89ab:cdef`.
Leading zeroes in each group are often removed.
IPv6 has been designed as successor for IPv4 because IPv4 does not provide enough IP addresses to cope with demand.
```

When you say "they look like" I don't think this is correct. The addresses are just numbers, we could write them like decimals, but it is convention to use octects or hexidecimal with groups.

> An IP address is considered unique and can only be used by a single computer on the internet at a given moment. Nevertheless, IP addresses can be re-assigned to another computer.

Reviewer: I don't think this is true, https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_address_translation
